\mainpage


# Overview

This project consists of a C++ Artificial Intelligence (AI) engine and a Python outer layer for the board game [Xiangqi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xiangqi) (also known as Chinese chess) and supports playing games in AI vs. AI, AI vs. Human, and Human vs. Human modes.


## Core Algorithm

The AI utilizes the Minimax algorithm enhanced by Alpha-Beta pruning to select moves. A transposition table based on Zobrist hashing is implemented for storage / retrieval of board state evaulation results and prevents re-calculation of previously seen board states.


## Architecture

Major components of the AI engine are isolated from each other by interface classes that employ the Curiously Recurring Template Pattern (CRTP). This approach allows for compile time polymorphism and avoids the runtime overhead associated with more traditional virtual class interfaces.



## Integration with Python

The C++ core is integrated with an outer Python layer using [pybind11](https://github.com/pybind/pybind11). The Python layer:
    - Provides a command-line interface (CLI) for running games and setting parameters such as the Minimax search depth and bit size of Zobrist keys.
    - Displays a text-based game board.
    - Saves detailed data generated by the core engine during move selection.
    - Uses [scikit-build-core](https://github.com/scikit-build/scikit-build-core) to connect the C++ CMake build system to [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/), facilitating installation as a standard Python package.


<div class="section_buttons">
 
| Previous          |                              Next |
|:------------------|----------------------------------:|
|                   | [Installing](02_installing.md) |
 
</div>
